---
permalink: /
title: "Welcome!"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
I'm Adrián, an incoming Health & Social Behavior MPH candidate at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health within the Social & Behavioral Sciences department. Also a researcher, I'm actively involved in labs/centers across the Harvard scientific community including: the Harvard Faculty of Arts & Sciences, Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Lee Kum Sheung Center for Health & Happiness/Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, McLean Hospital, and Harvard Graduate School of Education.

Research Areas of Focus
======
**Impact of Childhood Trauma on Brain Development, Emotional Processing, & Mental Health** 
Among my primary research areas of focus is the developmental affective neuroscience of childhood trauma, where I investigate the impact of early life stress on brain development and mental health using neuroimaging and neurophysiology techniques. Prior research (Herringa, 2017) showcases age-related abnormalities in frontolimbic activation and amygdala-prefrontal connectivity in pediatric post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The data from cross-sectional studies demonstrate that youth with PTSD exhibit increased amygdala activation with age, combined with decreased prefrontal recruitment and coupling. These findings suggest that youth with PTSD may experience abnormal neurodevelopment in key frontolimbic circuits, potentially leading to increasing threat reactivity and weaker emotion regulation ability over time. By employing cutting-edge imaging technologies and innovative data analysis methods, I aim to provide a better understanding of the long-term effects of childhood trauma on brain function, specifically focusing on the alterations in frontolimbic circuits implicated in emotional regulation and affective processing.

**Neural Effects of Psychedelic Substances: Brain Connectomics and Neuropsychopharmacology** 
My second research area focuses on the intersection of brain connectomics and psychedelics neuropsychopharmacology, using neuroimaging and neurophysiology to investigate the effects of psychedelic substances on brain connectivity and mental health. Specifically, I am interested in understanding how psychedelics modulate brain networks associated with mental health disorders such as depression and anxiety. To accomplish this, I leverage advanced neuroimaging techniques and rigorous experimental design, which allows me to investigate the effects of psychedelics on the turbulence of brain dynamics at the node-level. Such techniques follows research by Cruzat et al. (2022), where the node-level turbulence of brain dynamics was quantified and compared between the placebo and different psychedelic conditions. The results showed significant differences in the node-level turbulence of the somatomotor and dorsal attention networks between LSD and placebo, and the frontoparietal, default mode, and ventral networks between psilocybin and placebo. By exploring these effects, I aim to provide new insights into the therapeutic potential of these substances for the treatment of mental health disorders.

**Interplay of Trauma and Psychiatric Epigenetics: A Psychiatric Epidemiological Perspective**
My third research area of focus is the psychiatric epidemiology of trauma and psychiatric epigenetics, which aims to understand the relationship between environmental factors, such as childhood trauma, and the development of mental health disorders. One important aspect of this research is the role of epigenetics in shaping susceptibility to mental health disorders. As illustrated in research by Nie et al. (2022), emerging trends in epigenetics and childhood trauma research include the investigation of early life stress, DNA methylation, gene expression, and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, among other factors. By leveraging cutting-edge molecular biology techniques, I aim to uncover the genetic and environmental factors that contribute to the development of mental health disorders, with the ultimate goal of developing more effective prevention and treatment strategies. This involves combining large-scale epidemiological studies with molecular biology approaches to investigate the relationship between environmental factors, epigenetic changes, and mental health outcomes.

**Ecological Systems and the Path to Human Flourishing: Understanding Identity and Well-Being**
My fourth research area focuses on the intersection of positive psychology and philosophy, with a particular emphasis on the concept of human flourishing. To achieve this goal, I take a sociocultural approach that recognizes the impact of ecological systems on our sense of self, identity, and life purpose. Depicted in the framework by Yosso (2005), community cultural wealth is an array of knowledge, skills, abilities, and contacts possessed and utilized by Communities of Color to survive and resist macro and micro-forms of oppression. By acknowledging and understanding the role of community cultural wealth in shaping identity and promoting resilience, I aim to develop interventions that recognize and build on the strengths and resources of diverse communities. Through empirical research and philosophical inquiry, I seek to contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of human flourishing that takes into account the unique experiences and perspectives of individuals and communities.
