---
title: "Lateralization of activation in the Superior Temporal Gyrus for Speech Processing in Sleeping Infants Is Predictive of Their Language Skills in Kindergarten: an fMRI Study"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/project-3.3
excerpt: 'The study investigates the relationship between left-lateralized brain activation in the superior temporal gyrus (STG) during infancy and subsequent language skills in preschool/kindergarten. Using fMRI on 24 infants during natural sleep while listening to forward- versus backward-speech, researchers found that left-lateralization in the STG for forward speech at infancy was associated with later language skills, supporting the hypothesis of hemisphere asymmetries. However, no concurrent correlations were observed, and more studies are needed to replicate these findings due to the small sample size.'
citation: "Wang, J., Turesky, T., Loh, M., Barber, J., Hue, V., Escalante, E., Medina, A., Gaab, N. (submitted). Lateralization of activation in the Superior Temporal Gyrus for Speech Processing in Sleeping Infants Is Predictive of Their Language Skills in Kindergarten: an fMRI Study. Brain & Language. https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/3e7zq"
---
Comparative studies have hypothesized evolutionary advantages of hemisphere asymmetries that brain lateralization facilitates cognitive skills. Previous literature has shown that speech and language are primarily left-hemisphere dominance in most individuals. However, the evidence for associations between functional lateralization and language skills has been mixed. Using functional magnetic neuroimaging (fMRI), prior studies have observed that infants already exhibit left-lateralized brain activation in the superior temporal gyrus (STG) for speech sentences, even during sleep. However, little is known about whether this earliest left lateralization is associated with concurrent and long-term language outcomes. To address the literature gap, the current study involved 24 infants who underwent fMRI during natural sleep while listening to forward- versus backward-speech when they were 3-12 months old and were subsequently assessed on language skills in preschool/kindergarten when they were 55-74 months. We observed that the left-lateralization of functional activation in STG for forward versus backward speech at infancy was associated with subsequent but not concurrent language skills. Furthermore, exploratory analyses showed that neither behavioral measures of language skills nor the left lateralization of structural brain measurements in STG at infancy were related to subsequent language skills. Overall, our findings suggest that the left lateralization of STG for speech language processing may serve as a scaffold for later language acquisition, supporting the advantageous hypothesis of hemisphere asymmetries. In addition, our finding provides preliminary evidence for a potential early neural marker for identifying children with language difficulties. However, given the small sample size, more infant task-based fMRI studies are needed to replicate our findings.
